- [Instructor] H Plus sport drink has mandated
that the flagship website be migrated to a Java EE platform.
At present, you're evaluating
Apache Tomcat and Apache TomEE.
It's important to understand the differences
between Apache Tomcat and Apache TomEE.
Simply stated, Apache Tomcat addresses
the missing Java enterprise edition functionality
in Apache Tomcat, making it fully compliant.
Some organizations do not have flexibility of using TomEE.
So for this chapter, we'll be focusing on Apache Tomcat.
The Apachetomcat.org site says that
Apache Tomcat is an open source implementation
of the Java Servlet, JavaServer Pages,
Java Expression Language, and Java WebSocket technologies.
It powers numerous large-scale,
mission-critical web applications
across a diverse range of industries and organizations.
Apache Tomcat is specifically designed to work with
Java Servlets, JavaServer Pages,
JSPs, Java Experession Language.
And Apache Tomcat, as of version eight,
works with WebSocket technologies.
Okay, so what's the difference between the two?
Well, Apache TomEE, as its name suggests,
is a Java EE Web profile-certified stack.
So in Java five, in order to be certified,
you had to have implemented a full set Java EE APIs.
In Java six and above, you could define
a subset of the Java Enterprise edition as a profile,
which is what TomEE does.
TomEE provides several profile versions
that you can download.
It's built on Apache Tomcat core
and integrates additional Java EE related technologies
like CDI, EJB, JPA, and JSF, to name a few.
What's nice about TomEE is it includes
all of the goodies that Tomcat has,
Servlets, JSPS, JSTL, WebSockets, plus some more.
It also includes all the necessary Java EE APIs
that are listed here, which makes it a fully compliant
Java Enterprise edition application server.
TomEE is designed to make Tomcat Java EE compliant
and comes in four flavors, at the time of this recording.
As you can see from the right,
it delineates the versions available.
So which one do we use?
This is really personal preference,
and what your organization is comfortable with.
For this chapter, however,
we'll focus on configuring Tomcat.